In VSCode, highlighting over a word and selecting 'control + d' will select all words and you can replace by typing the word once. 


# Lecture 6/5/24

Creating a responsive website.

To use Bootstrap in your own application, type link:bs5

A powerful tool in Bootstrap is grid --located under layout
<div class="container"> --12 available spaces
    <div class="row">
        <div class="col-4"></div>
        <div class="col-4"></div>
    </div>
</div>


If you have space in your row, you can justify-content to move around as you see fit. 

WARNING: If you try to nest a column (col) within a column, it will break the Bootstrap. 

Container fluid removes the default margin/padding.

Note: 'control + /' to make comments. 

Jeremy's way to build:
top down, get close then move on

'.row' will create: 
<div class="row">
</div>

'.col-6' will create: 
<div class="col-6">
</div>

"Lorem" instead of a <p> will create random latin paragraph. 
"Lorem15" will instead create the same random paragraph, but with only 15 words.

To get a collection of images, use unsplash.com

image class in Bootstrap - class="img-fluid". More notes on Jeremy's index.html


justify-content-center will the container.
text-center will center the text

class="fs-1" would mimic a h1 tag. Goes to fs-6.

If you put a new row inside of a column, it would create another 12 units of space. Example in Jeremy's HTML in Bootstrap Intro.

"control + z" will undo last action.

Bootstrap class "rounded-circle" will create a circle.

WARNING -- No padding on rows, same with margin in columns. --

"mx" will create margin on the x-axis.
"my" will create margin on teh y-axis.

<br> will create a line break.

creating a background image in CSS:

class name:
background-image: url(www.urllink.com)

For example look at Jeremy's CSS in Bootstrap Intro. 

HTML <small> tag creates a small font. Good in the footer section.

'control + y' essentially is the redo instead of the undo.


Trick: Breakpoints

<div class="col-12 col-md-6"> This will have a column size 12 unless it hits a large enough width where it will kick to the second class of col-6. 

Bootstrap Ordering:
order-2 order-md-1

The code above essentially says that you want the order to be 2nd (last) by default, but on medium and up it will change to order 1 (first).


Bootstrap class Shadow will 

class "sticky-top" will allow the navbar to stick on the top when scrolling.

class "fw-bold" will make the text bold.

class "p-3" is padding 3.

A <p> has a default margin. Put margin=0 will fix that. 

Bootstrap Button Styling: 
class="btn btn-dark" on a button element will create a black button with white text. 

link mdi in the header will allow icons

pictogrammers.com has a library of icons

<i> used for show icons if no text in between. 

control + d -- be careful when selecting everything. Easy way to break things. 

